Lesson 2 Text 1
Contrastive PHRASEOLOGY (CPH)
Introductory notes.
Comparing individual l. is of course nothing new. Comparative studies (Comp. st.) in L. have a long history with its zenith in nineteenth-century Germany. It was not possible to deduce the existence of Proto-Indo European which is thought to have been spoken before 300 BC and to have split into different l. during the subsequent millenium, until scholars became aware of the systematic resemblance which can be found between European l. and Sanskrit, the oldest attested l. of the Indian sub continent, the sacred l. of Hinduism, a scriptural L. of Buddhism, and the oldest known member of the Indo- European L. family. Its script runs from left to right All major modern Indian L. have a Sanskritized register, used in religious and secular contexts. When these were first noticed, in the 16th c., many people were of the opinion that Sanskrit was the parent of the European l.. But towards the end of the 18th c. the systematic studies showed conclusively that this was not the case. Sir William Jones (1746-1794), a prominent British orientalist and Sanskrit scholar, was the first to point out in the form of rigorously founded scholarly hypothesis that Sanskrit, Greek, Latin, Gothic and some other l. of India and Europe had sprung from the same source which no longer existed. Thus the Foundation of Indo-European philology was laid. 
Comp. historical L. deals with various stages in the development of a single lang. or different but related lang. at a certain stage of development to reconstruct a proto-lang. from which kindred l. are thought to have descended. To classify lang. into certain groups on the basis of the occurrence of one or more features linguists compare lang. as they are used today. The subdiscipline is Comparative typological L.. 
But 2 or more lang. can be compared to determine both the differences and similarities between them.
During the years at the end of the 19th & the beginning of the 20th c. Ferdinand de Saussure (1857-1913) was working out his ideas in Europe the so called “Saussurean linguistic theory". At the end of 1906 he was persuaded to take over responsibility for a course on "General linguistics and the history of comparison of the Indo-European l.” from a scholar who had had to give it up after 33 years. S. taught such a course for the remainder of that session and the sessions 1908-9 & 1910-11. In the first of these years S. limited himself to historical matters. Finally, a whole semester was devoted to theoretical synchronic linguistics with valeur as its crucial term. In 1913 he died. The value of each element ultimately depends directly or indirectly on the value of every other. 
Synchronic l. was emerging independently & in a very different style in America under the leadership of the anthropologist Franz Boas who set a direction for American linguistics which turned out to be enormously fruitful and which was never seriously disputed until N. Chomsky in the late 50th. Boas (1858-1942) founded a school of “descriptivist linguistics”. He began his academic career as a student of physics and geography and through them he came to anthropology.
